COVID Safety / Public Health Adventure Game


To help inform students about making smart, public health decisions, I will create an adventure game that shows how individual choices around masks, hand washing, social distancing, and vaccination, help keep students safe. During the course of the game, the player will be asked to make decisions around their behavior in different situations. If students make a good decision, they will continue the game and be “rewarded” with a fact about how their choice improved their odds of staying healthy. If students make a bad choice, they will be placed in “Quarantine” and the game ends. The player will be notified that they must now quarantine for two weeks and will be presented with a reminder that the other choice can improve outcomes. The fact about the other choice improving outcomes will not be presented until the player replays the game and chooses the other path. The player in quarantine will be asked if they want to play again to try to improve their results. The player will have to make the correct choice in all of the scenarios to win the game and avoid quarantine. 


The game will begin with students preparing to leave for school in the morning, they will be given a choice of items to bring with them to school, including a mask. They will need the mask later in the game on the school bus. The students then move to the bus stop where a friend asks the student to look at something on their phone. The game will ask the student how many feet is a safe distance to look at the phone. If they answer less than six (6), they will be sent to quarantine. If the player properly distances themselves from other students and remembers to bring a mask, they will be allowed on the school bus. When the student arrives at school, they are presented a choice to wait in line for hand sanitizer or enter the school before the other students. If they choose sanitizer, they can enter the building. Once the students are inside the school and settled in class, the teacher informs the class about a special field trip that can only happen if all students are vaccinated. The game asks the player if they would be willing to get vaccinated (if they could) so that all students could go on the field trip. If the player answers yes, the game ends with the class going on the field trip. This hypothetical scenario is intended to send the message that sometimes the choices we make for ourselves can benefit others in the process. I am sure there is a better ending - I am open to suggestions! 


The game will take user inputs and use conditional logic to drive game play. To make the game accessible to more students, a language choice could be added at the beginning of the game. The game could be copied and the print statements translated to the alternate language without changing game logic.